
Bib To Html Help


                                           help version: 3.0
                                                created: 07/02/2001 {09:40:07 pm}
                                            last update: 07/16/2003 {01:00:29 AM}


This help file describes the package "Bib To Html"


	  	Table Of Contents


"# Introduction"
"# Bib To Html"
"# Bbl To Html"
"# License and Disclaimer"
"# Copyright"

<<floatNamedMarks>>


	  	Introduction
			 
			 
This is a new version of the converter BibToHtml.  Activating this package
will add two different menu items to the BibTeX Menu's 'BibTeX Conversion'
submenu -- "Bib To Html" and "Bbl To Html".

Preferences: Mode-Features-Bib

The current version works differently by allowing you to create an .html
bibliography file with your preferred bib (.bst) style.  (The older version
converted a selection of bib entries into html directly, analyzing each of
these entries, searching for the various fields and translating the content
of these ones into html code.  In this way, "BibToHtml" had been obliged to
create its own bib style.)

The current version works with BibTeX to create and translate a .bbl file
as described below.


	  	Bib To Html


As in the previous release, you use this command to convert either the
entire contents of a the current .bib window or only a part.  If there is
no highlighted selection, the entire .bib file is selected.  If the current
window is not a .bib file, you are prompted to locate one to convert.
 
(1) The selection is put in a temporary bib file, and you are prompted for
a bib style and other settings using a dialog that will look like this:

  <<Bib::ToHtml::conversionDialog "dummy" 1>>

All settings are saved for the next round, and between editing session. 
The 'labels' checkbox concerns the labels of bibliographic references as
[2], [4], [Bas], [Vin], etc -- these will be added during the conversion
process if requested.

An .aux temporary file is then created including the following commands:

	\bibstyle{your bib style}
	\citation{*}
	\bibdata{tmp<count>}

"tmp<count>" is the name of the temporary bib file.  All of these temporary
files are created in the same temporary folder in your Alpha Prefs file, and 
the 'count' is incremented with each new use of the menu item.

(3) "Bib To Html" then launches BibTeX which deals this temporary .aux file
and converts the temporary .bib file in a .bbl file.  Your BibTeX
application must be able to find the defined .bst style file -- if it can 
be found in the same directory as the .bib file it should work fine, as a 
copy of it will be placed in the temporary folder.  Otherwise, see the 
documentation that came with your BibTeX application.
 
IMPORTANT: When BibTeX is launched, Alpha doesn't know when the process of
bibtexing the file is complete.  Attempting to continue before the .bbl is
actually created will cause serious problems.  In order to avoid this
mistake "Bib To Html" issues alert dialog asking "Is BibTeX Finished?"  --
do NOT click on the OK button until you're sure that BibTeX is done !!
 
When BibTeX stops (it should beep or somehow let you know) you can switch
back to Alpha if necessary, answer OK to this message and the conversion
continues.  Finally, "Bib To Html" converts this .bbl file using ...


NEW FEATURES: This new release, BibToHtml 3.0, includes some important new features.

 1) Dialog windows have been improved by Craig B. Upright.
 
 2) BibtoHtml now works with many standard bibstyles:
    abbrv, abstract, acm, alpha, amsalpha, amsplain, annotate, annotation, apa, 
	apalike, apalike2, astron, authordate 1-4, fralpha, frplain, named, 
	namunsrt, nature, newapa, plain, plainyr.

 3) If a field, created by one of these styles, is written in small caps 
    characters, the converter takes in account this font and simulates it in html.
 
 4) It is now possible to provide a starting index for bib styles including
    numeric labels, plain for example, so that you may start the numeration
	by any number: 5, 10, 25, ...
	
 5) In the same way you may prefix the labels with any characters string 
    of your choice, for example: a string BAS with plain will provide 
    labels as [BAS1], [BAS2], ..... If you simultaneously prefix a numeric 
    label and you select a starting number you could get, for example:
	[BAS10], [BAS11], .....
	


	  	Bbl To Html


Craig added a new command "Bbl To Html" in the "BibTeX Conversions" sub-menu.
When called directly from the menu, you are offered a dialog asking you to 
select a .bbl file that you have already created.  This dialog looks like

  <<Bib::ToHtml::conversionDialog>>

In this case you must have already called BibTeX on a .tex file, so the bib 
style has already been declared elsewhere.

When called indirectly from "Bib To Html", you've already seen this dialog
and the temporary .bbl file already created is used.

"Bbl To Html" then processes the .bbl file, converting it into an .html
file.  This html file can then be directly sent to your local browser, or
you can open it in "HTML" mode for editing.  You may improve this html
file, in adding titles or any fancies, for example, before sending to the
browser.
 
IMPORTANT: 

  If some bib entries in the file or selection are syntactically incorrect,
  your BibTeX application will display the errors.  But these errors won't
  affect the work of "Bib/Bbl To Html", and these erroneous entries will
  probably be converted to html with wrong fields.

NOTE: 

  It is not needed to first sort the .bib file or the selection because
  BibTeX will do it.  The converted .html file will be correctly sorted.
  Any '@strings' entries will also be translated.


	  	License and Disclaimer


Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

 ¥ Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

 ¥ Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

 ¥ Neither the name of Alpha/Alphatk nor the names of its contributors may
   be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
   without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR
ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.


Author: Pierre BASSO
E-mail: <basso@lim.univ-mrs.fr>

	  	Copyright

This document has been placed in the public domain.
